## OUGR Background and Objectives
Ohio University began its green roof sustainability initiative project in 2019 after receiving a series of grants, including an Academic Innovation Accelerator grant. The objectives of the initiative are the minimization of carbon emissions along with helping to reach the long term goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2050. The deployment of the green roof is intended to reduce energy demands, decrease stormwater accumulation, improve air quality, and help lower carbon emissions. The initiative is an interdisciplinary project involving faculty members from Ohio University’s College of Arts and Sciences, Scripps College, Voinovich School of Leadership and Public Affairs, Russ College of Engineering and Technology, and Patton College of Education. Undergraduate and graduate students are also involved through courses, PACE, graduate assistant positions, and The Green Initiative (a student organization). 

Over the span of 2019, multiple data collecting devices were placed atop the roof and have been collecting relevant climate data. The initial plan called for the final construction of the green roof to begin in Spring of 2020, but work was delayed until July of 2020. To correctly measure the progress and effectiveness of the green roof, large amounts of data were collected before the roof’s construction. The challenge of data collection and display, was the centralization and accessibility of the data.

Zabbix, an open-source monitoring software tool typically used for IT components (networks, servers, virtual machines, and cloud services), was adapted to both collect live climate data, and load historical data. A series of scripts and documentation have also been prepared to ease the processes of collecting live data, formatting historical data, navigating the zabbix interface, and configuring new zabbix objects.

Currently, most collected Purple Air, Kestrel, and CampbellSci green roof data has been aggregated into Zabbix. This project also provides an alternative web app solution for collection and centralization.

